1. **Docker daemon (dockerd)**: It is now called ```dockerd```, which is the server-side component of the Docker Engine that runs in the backgroun process in the host system.
2. **Docker Host**: It is the phsical or virtual machine that the dockerd and containers runs on.
3. **Docker Registry**: It is a storage and distribution system for Docker images. It allows us to share images among users and systems.
4. **Image/Image Tag**: ```[registry]/[repository]:[tag]```. It is a read-only template for creating a Docker container.  Image tag is a label applied to a Docker image to identify a specific version or variant.
5. **Container**: It is a runtime instance of a Docker image. Containers are isolated from each other and the host OS.
6. **Docker volume**: It is a  mechanism that persists data generated by and used by Docker containers. 
7. **Docker Namespace vs Kubernetes Namespace**: 
   * ``Docker`` uses **Linux namespaces** to provide isolation between containers. That's docker namespace.
   * In ``Kubernetes``, namespaces provide a mechanism for isolating groups of resources within a single cluster. It allows multiple users or teams to share cluster resources while keeping their resources isolated from each other.
8. **Kubernetes Node**: A node may be a virtual or physical machine that runs our workload by placing containers into Pods and run on Nodes.
9. **Kubernetes Pod**: It is the smallest deployable units of computing that we can create and manage in Kubernetes. It is a group of one or more containers, with shared storage and network resources, and a specification for how to run the containers. 
10. **Kubernetes Service**: It is an abstraction to help us expose groups of Pods over a network. The Service abstraction enables this decoupling.accessible.
11. **Kubernetes ReplicaSet**: It maintains a stable set of replica Pods running at any given time. As such, it is often used to guarantee the availability of a specified number of identical Pods.
12. **Kubernetes Deployment**: A Deployment manages a set of Pods to run an application workload, usually one that doesn't maintain state.

